                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast,
the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free
software for all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation, use the
GNU General Public License for most of our software; it applies also to
any other work released this way by its authors.  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
them if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new
free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you
these rights or asking you to surrender the rights.  Therefore, you have
certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if
you modify it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps:
(1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License
giving you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

  For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains
that there is no warranty for this free software.  For both users' and
authors' sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as
changed, so that their problems will not be attributed erroneously to
authors of previous versions.

  Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run
modified versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer
can do so.  This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of
protecting users' freedom to change the software.  The systematic
pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of products for individuals to
use, which is precisely where it is most unacceptable.  Therefore, we
have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit the practice for those
products.  If such problems arise substantially in other domains, we
stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future versions
of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States should not allow patents to restrict development and use of
software on general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to
avoid the special danger that patents applied to a free program could
make it effectively proprietary.  To prevent this, the GPL assures that
patents cannot be used to render the program non-free.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

  "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License.  Each licensee is addressed as "you".  "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

  To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work
in a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an
exact copy.  The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the
earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based
on the Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying it. 

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties to make or receive copies. 

  An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the extent that it includes a prominent statement that users have the freedom to run, modify, and share the software.

  1. Source Code.

  The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a work. 

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that is widely used among developers of similar works and that is documented in a publicly available specification.

  2. Basic Permissions.

  You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating that this License applies to the Program; and distribute a copy of this License along with the Program.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  3. Copyleft.

  You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 2 above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

  - a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

  - b) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to anyone who receives a copy. This License will therefore apply, along with any applicable section of this License, to the whole of the work, and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged. 

  - c) If the modified work is an executable, you must include the source code for the modified work along with it, or provide a written offer to supply the source code.

  4. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

  You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of Sections 2 and 3, provided that you also do one of the following:

  - a) Convey the object code in a form that is suitable for further modification by the recipient, for example, by including the source code along with it.

  - b) Convey the object code in a form that is suitable for further modification by the recipient, for example, by including the source code along with it.

  5. Additional Terms.

  "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions. 

  6. Termination.

  You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.

  7. Acceptance Not Required; Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

  You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or propagate a covered work. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.

  8. No Warranty.

  The Program is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. 

  9. Limitation of Liability.

  In no event unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing will any copyright holder, or any other party who modifies and/or conveys the Program, be liable to you for damages, including any general, special, incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use or inability to use the Program (including but not limited to loss of data or data being rendered inaccurate or losses sustained by you or third parties or a failure of the Program to operate with any other programs), even if such holder or other party has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

  10. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

  If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. 

  11. Future Versions of this License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish new versions of the GNU General Public License from time to time. 

  12. How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs.

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software that everyone can redistribute and change. You can apply this License to your program, which will make it free for all its users.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the license terms.

```plaintext
    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.